At the end of the day. one of the things I want to be able to do. is generate characters
exlcusivly through data files (json most likely)

there are some problems with this. mainly, it adds limitations

for most characters, this is not an issue. however it limits the future scope of characters

for this reason, I will be stealing from minecraft a bit and implement a character type system

essentially, you can define a cahracter type. a character type, constructs a character

I would then setup a registry that holds character type deserializers.

so in the file it would look like

"type":"simple"

which then gets the simple deserializer to construct a character type

now a Character Definition, encompases more than jsut the character type.
this is because the character will also have non fighting game details(aka the card game aspect)

so a character defintion ends up being multiple json files combined(not just 1 for ease of use)


Animations
I will be using a custom animation node(very simplified) that only controls Sprites and Collision boxes

this is because the animation is inherintly linked to the frame data, so i only want the animation to advance if the state 
is also advancing

for this reason. animations will also be represented in file format(once again prob json)
that get loaded into memeory when the character type creates a character

a character type json file can reference multiple animation files.
(can prevent a single file getting too big)
in that scenario, when refrencing an animation it should be done as filename:animation_name
therefore you cannot have files sharing the same name


file locations

For now it will be internall. However, it will eventually be nescesary to set it up shuch that
they are not directly packaged with the .exe, but in some resource folder

I will once again "steal" from minecraft here and setup a VERY SIMPLIFIED datapack system

so all of our base characters will be defined in some namespace
if a datapack overrides that namespace it is replaced


multiplayer concerns.

stuff like colliders will also be handled in these files. which will obviously cause problems
when we start trying to play online

I could also then seperate the animation into a visual_ and data_ animation for hasihgn

in simple terms

the user will generate a file hash. the matchmaking server expects a certain hash
if the hash does not match they cannot join
(it is possible for clients to fake their hash. in those cases we just need to run off "trust")

if they do bypass it rollback net code should be able to detect it and terminate the game


I would then setup lobbies that dont check against a Server game hash but against the lobby hosts hash


as long as I setup the hash correctly, player should be able to use visual mods
(skins) but not gameplay mods(at least for official matchmaking)





Generating frame data 
On of the problems that will turn up is hurtboxes and hitboxes.
because characters dont have 1 hurtbox but might have multiplie in some moves
for this reason when geneating the cahracter we determine the max number of each needed
then assign each animations hit/hurtbox to one of them. when an animaiont is played
all are disabled, then only those that are needed are enabled



state data

each sate will recieve data. this data will include its animation(consider fully splittting the sprite anoimation and hitbox/hurtbox animations?)
(this will be played at the start, includes data like speed and loop)

attacks will have extra meta data, that is attached to the hitboxes
the main thing is when a hit is detected, disable that hitbox

for attacks recovery frames might differ depnding on outcome
(although for blocks and stuff this is mainly handled through hitstun/blockstun)
however some people might want conditional animations to play on recovry
so first i add an animation condition
then the animation
(wont do a registry situation for this, since for attacks it will always be the same)

so for an attack on recovery it will recive the attack data,namely the opponents result
here we can react differntly to hit,miss or block.
on top of that each might have subtypes (e.g some styles might include a parry) that has conditional recovery
s
